# ProjectileMotionSimulator

For my project I created a physics game that simulates projectile motion and the calculation of range on a flat surface. I am studying computer science and I am very passionate about software development so when I heard about the project, I knew I wanted to make an app. The tool I chose to accomplish this is called Unity, it is a software development tool used to create video games and it has built in physics simulation. My app puts to test physics equations vs the physics simulator in Unity. 
  
I started by programming a cube to be launched at a specified angle and velocity. Unity allows you to change the velocity of an object by giving it a vector. To accomplish this, I took the user inputted angle in degrees and then found the x and y component of that angle to make the appropriate force vector. I took the user inputted velocity and then multiplied it by the force vector. For units of measure Unity uses radians for degrees, so I first had to change the angle from degrees to radians. For distance and velocity Unity uses meters and meters per second respectively so no conversions were necessary. Using this technique, I was able to launch objects at any angle and velocity given by the user. 
  
After I successfully programmed the object to be launched at any given angle and velocity I wanted to see if the distance the object travelled was accurate. I tested the accuracy of the physics simulation by comparing the recorded distance travelled with the expected distance derived from the equation for projectile range. The equation I used for calculated the expected distance is: range = (v^2 * sin(2*theta)) / g. When I started tracking the actual distance and the expected distance, I noticed that they were not the same, the numbers were pretty close but not exactly the same. The error between the expected and actual distances made me think about why they were not coming out to be the same number. I discovered that Unity was using the center of the object to measure distances, so I changed the origin of the object to be at the bottom where it touches the ground. I also prevented any rotation of the object happening during and after flight to isolate the behavior being tested. After making these adjustments the error got smaller, but it was still not perfect. I figure that Unity’s physics simulator is not perfect, so I decided to calculate the margin of error between the expected and recorded distances. This helped me to see just how accurate my projectile motion range simulation is compared to the kinematic equations. After about 15 launches from various angles and velocities the average margin of error came to be about 0.001 m, which looks very close to me! I learned that the physics simulator in Unity is not exactly perfect but gets pretty close when calculating the range of projectiles. 
  
In the end this project was very valuable to me! I was able to further expand my programming skills as well as knowledge of physics. It was fun to take a physics equation and put it into code and make a visual game out of it. I liked seeing a problem that we worked on in class come to life in a computer game that I was able to build.

Here is a link to a video demo of what I built: https://youtu.be/3PMlXbwjTEA

